# WQD7005_AA

## Methodology
In this case study, data was sourced from Kaggle to attempt to study and gain insights on e-commerce customer churn. In particular, the goal was to develop decision trees, random forests and gradient boosting models to predict if e-commerce customers will churn and then use insights gained from the model to inform business decisions for the e-commerce company. The data sourced from Kaggle was first cleaned, checked for errors, missing values were imputed in Talend Data Preparation. Talend Open Studio used to demonstrate how an e-commerce company would ingest data from two separate tables (transactions and customers) and join them into a single table before analysis. Feature engineering was then conducted using Python to create features necessary for a churn classification model. Finally SAS was used to create the prediction models. 

## Results
Based on the results obtained from SAS, the HP Forest - Sampled model showed the best performance although the model still experienced a high degree of overfitting. Variable importance for the HP Forest model was extracted to give some insights on what factors affect customer churn. Compared to decision tree variable importance which come only from a single tree, variable importance outputs calculated from a random forest model are aggregated across all trees in the random forest, increasing consistency and reducing variability in the outcome. Based on this output, Days_Since_Last_Purchase is the most influential variable followed by CLTV and Avg_Txn_Size. The e-commerce company could reduce customer churn by sending discounts or promotions to customers that have made a purchase in a long time, especially customers who frequently make large purchases or those who have made many purchases over time. The least important variables are Fav_Payment_Method and Gender. This could inform the company that gender-specific marketing is not necessary as gender does not affect churn as much as other variables.

## Reflection
Other models such as decision trees and gradient boosting were unable to find good performance on this dataset with models either overfitting or underfitting. Furthermore, performance of all models suggest that a better dataset is required for the e-commerce company to address the issue of customer churn. To improve on this in the future, the company could embark on a data collection initiative by sending surveys or feedback forms to customers.
